Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now in this lecture we're going to touch on a previous topic which is printing out our lists but we're
going to look at a much more efficient way to do it.
So I've got started here as well as you can see I've added in the usual comments at the top.
Today's date the name my name and the name of this program so previously we create a list of months
and we're going to do that again now.
So months equals opening closing square brackets.
And what I'm going to do now is just paste in a list of months so you can do the same.
You don't want to sit here and watch me type through all of those.
Now as we saw in previous lecture the only way to print out one or all of the months was to do it individually
like this print months
and then identify the elements which we want to print.
So in this case zero and let's have a look January.
There we go.
But in this lecture we are going to learn about looping through an entire list.
So you don't have to do this line.
This print statement every time platens for loop is used every time you want to perform the same action
with every item in a list.
So in this example we want to print out each month instead of doing it individually.
Let's use a for loop.
So let's have a look at how we do that.
Let's start off the comments so we know what we're doing because this is a new concept using a for loop
to print a list.
Perfect.
OK.
So we start off our for loop with a block of code like this for month and that's an individual item
will in our list month in months which is the name of our list colon every four loop has to be closed
with a colon.
And what that does is it Spuyten.
This is where the body of the loop is.
And as you can see it indented automatically for us.
So next we say print
that's going to do is it's going to print out the individual element.
So at line 8 which is just here we define a for loop.
Here we are telling piking to take them on from our list of months and stored in a variable called Month.
We didn't help Huyton on the next line.
To print the value that was just stored in month and repeats this process for every item in the list
for every month in the list of months print the month name.
Is that's exactly what we're telling the computer to do.
And let's have a look and see how this runs beautiful every month from her list printed with only two
lines of code.
Looping is a beautiful thing because it allows your programs to automate repetitive tasks.
Let's extend our previous months example by doing a little more.
What are forwarded.
So let's update our print statement here print month that title so we'll capitalize the first letter
of each month.
Don't forget like I have just done your opening and closing brackets at the end of title plus open closing
and double quotes.
Space is the name of a month.
Here we go.
So let's have a look and see how that runs.
Brilliant.
January is named a month.
December is a name for money.
So as you can see very easy to automate repetitive tasks that you might have to do over and over again.
So let's take a closer look at our for loop.
It starts with a line for month in months.
This is the start of a loop.
When you hit return your plight in code editor should automatically indent the next line which then
reads print monster title and the rest of the code that we have here.
Indentation is usually important to write in and we'll discuss why in the later lecture in the first
line we are telling people to go out and get the first value from a list of months and stored in the
variable month.
So here obviously the first value is January and then read the next line and print out the current value
of the month of February then it goes back to the first line of the loop and repeats the same process
until there are no more values in the list.
So the process of elimination Truda loop when they're not when there are no more values left in the
list pikemen those the next line.
And their example there is nothing after the for loop.
So our program ends our indentation here.
If there was more and a for loop there would be a new line here at the indentation new line but we don't
have anything here Spuyten knows that this is the end of the for loop.
So we're in your loop you can do just about anything and he can write as many lines of code in it so
we could have as many new lines here as we wanted.
And once are indented and considers them part of our for a loop every indented line after month and
month is considered as I just said by Spuyten to be inside the loop on each indented line is executed
once for each value in a list which means you can do as much work as you like with each value in the
list.
So let's beef up a program with the following.
Let's first just print out our list of months and put each month on a new line.
So we'll leave it at that title plus backslash new line.
Perfect.
And don't forget we need to still because this is a character.
New lines are considered characters we need to put that in opening and closing quotes next print open
closing double quote the next month is leave a space there and let's see how that looks.
Very nice.
January next month is February next month as March next month of April and so on and so on.
So as we just discussed if you don't put anything after your for loop your program just ends.
But most of the time you'll want to give your users some feedback and the lines of code after the for
loop that are not indented executed once without repetition.
Print
good bye nice and at the very end.
Goodbye.
OK so that's an introduction in the for for loop.
We're going to be using that quite extensively in the rest of this course.
So don't worry we'll be getting much more into it later on.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.